---
title: "Literature Analysis"
date: 2022-03-15T22:36:49-04:00
draft: false
pin: true
summary: "Analysis of Different Articles"
---

# Summary

This page provides a summary of the different articles I explored for the literature assignment.

---

## Table of Contents

1. [Survey Article](#survey-article-from-the-literature)
2. [Literature 1](#first-article-from-the-literature)
3. [Literature 2](#second-article-from-the-literature)

---

### Survey Article from the literature


 - Citation of the article

Altalhi, A. H., Luna, J. M., Vallejo, M. A., & Ventura, S. (2017). Evaluation and comparison of open source software suites for data mining and knowledge discovery. Wiley Interdisciplinary Reviews: Data Mining and Knowledge Discovery, 7(3), e1204.

 - In two or three sentences, discuss the goals of this article.

The goal of this article is to provide an analayis of data mining tools and features by comparing different data mining tools. These tools include WEKA, RapidMiner, and Konstanz Information Miner. They are evaluated in one of two ways: the subjective judgement that each tool provides (which are provided by outside experts) and an objective analysis about the different features offers by each data mining tool.

 - What is /are the general task(s) that all the methods address in the article?

These data mining tools are evaluated in the aforementioned two ways, with the first being evaluation and the second being feature analysis. The expert evaluation occurs when the tools are tested to answer a collection of questions about their performance, usability, functionality, etc. The feature analysis includes an analysis of the system requirements, the different types of approaches offered, and the type of user interface that is implemeneted and any issues that arose.

 - What are some of the leading methods introduced and discussed in this paper?

The leading software methods were all data mining tools. These tools offer a range of different features, are in different programming languages, and have varying requirements for a system. Each of the data mining tools introduced were summarized in a paragraph, describing the notable features and/or downfalls of the tool.

 - What is the context of the discussion of these methods? For instance, are there demonstrations in light of some task that they address?

These tools are introduced so that the two methods could be used to compare the different tools. Their performances and expert scores were used to show a user the different strengths and weaknesses of a data mining tool, which could potentially help to narrow down which tool they should use for what primary feature they are focused on. These demonstrations are seen through different graphing visuals and tables containing the different weighted scores for each data mining tool.

 - How can some of these methods be used in your own work? What purpose would the method serve in your work?

This method analysis could help my work because it lets me focus on what different algorithms and data mining features I should focus on for my comp, as I could essentially use a combination of different data mining tools. This would help to serve my work because I can narrow down the top data mining softwares I can realistically use, which will help me with my research in the long haul.

---

### First article from the literature

 - Citation of the article

Jagtap, S. B. (2013). Census data mining and data analysis using WEKA. arXiv preprint arXiv:1310.4647.

 - What is the goal of this article?

In this paper, the WEKA software was used to extract the census, socio-economic and population data. This article provides a step-by-step process for how to format the data set properly, what parameters and attributes were used in the GUI for WEKA, and an example of the visuals generated by WEKA. This allows one to show the different utilizations and data mining issues/discoveries that one can make with WEKA. This article addresses how to set up the WEKA for data analysis. The general tasks that are addressed were for how to input the data set in ACII and how to set up a simplistic data analysis.

 - In about 100 words, please summarize the main goal of the article.

This paper was primarily focused on the sample analysis of Census data using WEKA. There were pictures of WEKA features and data sets included in this paper, which helps the user to understand which part of WEKA they would need to be working in. The set up instructions were properly demonstrated through these visuals and through accurate captions. This article provides a great walkthrough for the WEKA software, especially for non-technical users.

---

### Second article from the literature

 - Citation of the article

Madyatmadja, E. D., Jordan, S. I., & Andry, J. F. (2021). Big Data Analysis Using Rapidminer Studio To Predict Suicide Rate In Several Countries. ICIC Express Letters, Part B: Applications, 12(8).

 - What is the goal of this article?

The goal of this article is to use a data mining tool called RapidMiner to compare the different socio-economic information that is separated by year and country. This is useful for analyzing patterns among large amounts of data. This analysis also features data predictions, which will be used for further analysis.

 - In about 100 words, please summarize the main goal of the article.

The research paper used large amounts of data to provide a prediction on suicide rates in different countries. The research process for these suicide rates involved studying the literature, collecting the different data, processing all of the countries' data, using the data mining tool to analyze the data, and then making the final reports for summarize this data. The rest of the article then provides an in-depth explanation of the research process, which are then mentioned in their result breakdown. The specific numbers that were inputted for their data mining tools are also presented, which gives readers insight into how one could realistically replicate their results for verification purposes.

---
